Good afternoon and welcome.
My name is Joakiim Linde and
I'm here to talk to you about
the Core Bluetooth framework.
In iOS 5, we introduced the
Core Bluetooth framework with
support for Bluetooth Low Energy.
We got a tremendous response from you,
so thank you,
especially from the sports and fitness
industry and the mobile health industry.
In iOS 6, we're introducing some new and
exciting functionality targeted towards
social media and proximity sensing.
At the end of this presentation,
you will see a demonstration showing
two iPhones exchanging data wirelessly,
triggered by proximity sensing.
We think this is very exciting,
and we're sure this will
help your application and the
relationship that you're trying
to build with app developers.
But before we show the demo,
I'd like to introduce to you
the Core Bluetooth framework.
We'll start with covering
the object model.
Brian talked a little bit about
this in the morning session.
Then we're going to talk
about the two roles:
the central role, that's also the client,
and the peripheral role,
that's the server.
After that,
we're going to dive in and talk a little
bit about tips and tricks and reminders.
We got a lot of feedback from you
guys over the past year about this.
We're going to move on and
talk about iOS backgrounding,
how to discover devices efficiently,
and this concept called pairing.
Then we're going to wrap up with a demo.
So let's dive right in.
The Core Bluetooth implements support for
the Bluetooth low energy protocol stack.
We're not going to bore you
with all the details of the
Bluetooth low energy stack.
We've taken care of all of
that so you can focus on just
using it in your application.
And the Core Bluetooth framework
provides a fairly complete API so
your application can make use of
the Bluetooth low energy technology.
The key thing with the
Core Bluetooth framework is it gives you,
the app developer,
control over almost everything.
It puts the application in total
control so it can make use of the
Bluetooth Low Energy as best as possible.
So let's dive in and take a
look at some key concepts.
We have the central role and
then we have the peripheral role.
The central role is normally implemented
on a Mac or on an iPhone or an iPad.
And the peripheral role is, for instance,
a heart rate monitor or some other
accessibility or some other accessory.
New in iOS 6 is that we now
support for the peripheral
role built into iOS as well.
So the peripheral is
the one serving up data.
So it acts as the server.
And the central is the
one consuming the data.
And this acts as the client.
This is a similar relationship
as we have with web browsing,
where the web server serves the data
and we as the client gets the data.
How do we implement this on the
Core Bluetooth object framework?
The central side is represented
by a CB central manager object.
This is the object where you
control your local central.
The remote side, the peripheral,
is represented by a CB peripheral object.
The same way on the peripheral side
we have a CB peripheral manager that
implements the local peripheral.
And this is the object that
you interact with when you try
to interact with your client.
You interact with this
peripheral on your local device.
And the remote side,
the CB central in this case,
is represented by the CB central object.
So that was the main objects of
the Core Bluetooth object model.
As Brian mentioned in the earlier talk,
we have a couple of
other objects as well.
Data objects.
And this is where we have to introduce
the concept of a characteristic
and the service.
A characteristic is basically
a fancy name for a variable.
And the variable has a value.
You can take these characteristics and
group them together into a service.
And we use the CB service
object to represent that group.
We also have immutable versions of
these and mutable versions of them.
and we're going to take a look
at the mutable versions when we
dive into the peripheral side.
We also have a couple of helper objects.
Everything is represented
by UUIDs in Core Bluetooth.
So we have a dedicated object for that,
the CBUUID object.
And then we have a request object that
you get when you do read and write.
So we're going to get to those in a sec.
So let's dive in and look at the central.
There's three easy steps.
First one is, you have to discover
[Transcript missing]
running iOS 6,
or even a thermostat that's
sitting on the wall in this room.
All of these devices can be peripherals.
They all send out advertising packets.
So we can find them.
And they sit there.
The heart rate monitor sends
out an advertising packet.
The iOS 6 device sends out advertising
packets if it's in peripheral mode.
Or the thermostat on the wall sends
out these advertising packets.
That's how we find these devices.
And we as a central in this case,
just sit back,
open up a receiver and start
listening for these devices,
these advertising packets.
So how would we implement the central
role in the Core Bluetooth framework?
Well,
it's a fully asynchronous interface.
So we have our CB central manager object,
and it has a delegate
where we get the callback.
And we start by saying,
calling the method scan for peripherals
with services on the CB Central Manager.
When we call this,
we can say we can scan for every single
devices that are out there and we get
to receive all advertising packets,
or we can be a little bit
smart about it and say,
I'm only interested in devices
that has a certain service,
and that service is
represented by a UUID.
So for instance, if I'm only looking for
heart rate monitor belts,
I just specify the UUID for
heart rate monitor service.
The radio will go off and start
listening for these devices
and do the filtering for you.
and you're going to get
a number of callbacks,
one for each advertising
packet that we receive.
Did discover peripheral.
With that callback,
we also get a CB peripheral
object that you can use if you
want to connect to this device.
Once you've found a device
that you're interested in,
you stop scanning.
So we don't have to spend any
power opening up our radio anymore,
listening for devices.
And call Connect Peripheral,
supplying the CP peripheral
that you just got with the
Did Discover Peripheral callback.
Since we just recently saw this device,
we now know that it's fairly close
by and setting up a connection to
it is going to be fairly quick.
And once a connection is set up,
you get a callback,
"Did connect peripheral?"
We've discovered the device,
we've set up a connection to it,
and we're now ready to
start exploring this device.
So, as Brian talked about in the morning,
this peripheral contains a tree structure
of services and characteristics.
And what we're going to do is
try to replicate that or copy
that tree structure to our local
device so we can start interacting.
We're going to use these objects
so we can read and write to them.
As an example of that is, for instance,
in a heart rate monitor,
you can have a service,
the heart rate monitor service.
It can have two
characteristics or variables,
one of them being the heart
rate and the second one being
the body sensor location.
This is where on your body this
heart rate monitor is located.
It could be over the chest, on your arm,
on your finger, on your hand,
earlobe or foot.
Let's see how we do
this in Core Bluetooth.
Now we're going to start
interacting with the CB peripheral
object that we got earlier.
and we call the method Discover Services.
We can of course ask for all services,
but we can be smart about it.
If we're just interested in
the heart rate monitor service,
we just ask for that specific service.
Core Bluetooth now goes over
the air and gets the data
back and you get a call back,
"Did discover services?" Now you
can call "Discover characteristics
for service" and asking the system
to fetch all the characteristics,
or in the heart rate monitor case,
the two characteristics.
Ask the system to fetch those
and once those are available,
you get "Did discover characteristics?"
Next, we're going to take a look at
how to interact with a device.
So now we have set up a connection to it,
we discover the services,
and now we take one of these
characteristics that's under a service,
and we can start reading
and writing that variable.
So for instance,
if I want to read where on my body
this body sensor location is located,
I can call read value
for characteristics.
The read request goes out to the device,
fetches the value for that
variable or characteristic,
and you get a callback,
did update value for characteristic.
And that works fine if you're
just going to read it once.
But in the case of my heart rate,
I don't really want to
read it every single time.
Instead, I'd like the heart rate monitor
to send me an updated value
whenever there is an updated value.
Normally, heart rate monitors measure the
heart rate about once a second.
So I want to tell the heart rate monitor
that I'm interested in this value,
so please notify me when it changes.
So I do that by calling the method
setNotifyValue for characteristic.
Now the heart rate monitor knows
that whenever the heart rate
monitor changes or whenever I have
a new measurement for this value,
You get a callback, "Did update value for
characteristic?" This is kind of cool.
Your application just sits
back and relaxes and waits
for these values to come in.
You don't have to worry about, "Oh,
should I pull it again?" and all this.
So instead, sit back, relax.
When there's a new value coming in,
you can update the UI,
you can log this value,
do what you want with it.
So far we talked about how to discover,
explore, and interact with a device.
Now we're going to talk about
how to reconnect to a device.
So there's three ways.
to reconnect to a device.
The first one is scan and connect.
And this is what we just did.
We scanned for the device to see if
it's around and then connected to it.
The second is you can reconnect
to this device using a UUID.
And you go UUID again.
Would it be better to use a
Bluetooth address here and refer to it?
Well, Bluetooth addressing is kind of
complicated in Bluetooth Low Energy.
The address changes over time and
we do that to obfuscate things.
So instead we've abstracted all of
this away for you and all you need
is a UUID to represent that device.
You can take this UUID,
store it somewhere,
and then a couple of days
later come back and say I want
to reconnect to this device.
And the third way is another
app running on the phone.
And the phone might already have set
up a connection to that peripheral.
So you can go and ask what
other connections exist and
maybe I should use one of those.
So let's dive in and take
a look at number two,
how we would do that in the
Khrob Bluetooth framework.
Option three, I let you guys do that
as an exercise at home.
So we have this UUID representing the
peripheral that we want to connect to.
Now I need to take that
UUID and go to a factory.
So they can produce a CB peripheral
object for me that I can use
to call connect peripheral.
And the way I do that is
I call retrieve peripherals,
supplying the UUID of the
device that I'm interested in.
And I get a call back,
did retrieve peripherals.
with a CB peripheral object that I now
can take and call Connect Peripheral.
Since we didn't see the
peripheral through advertising,
we don't know if that
peripheral is around.
So when you call Connect Peripheral,
that could take a while.
It could take an hour, a day,
or even a week.
The cool thing with this is next time
iOS sees this device somewhere around,
we will call
So your application gets to know that
the peripheral is now available and
you can start doing data with it.
So far, we've been very much
focused on the central side.
The central could be a Mac or an iPhone.
What we're going to do now is move
on and take a look at the peripheral
side and how we can implement the
peripheral side on an iOS 6 device.
So implementing a peripheral device
allows a Mac to talk to an iPhone.
It also allows an iPhone
to talk to another iPhone.
And the cool thing is,
this is while your app
is in the background.
We're going to talk a little
bit later about more about
backgrounding and how that is done.
Let's start with taking a
look at how we're going to
implement the peripheral side.
So there's three easy steps.
The first one is we have to build our
tree with services and characteristics.
The second one is we have to
take that tree and publish
it and start advertising,
sending out these advertising packets.
And the third thing is sit back and wait
for the read request or write request
to come in for these variables and
characteristics that we just published.
So the first thing is we
have to build the tree.
And this is where the new
CBMutable services and CBMutable
characteristics comes in place.
So we start by instantiating
a CBMutable service,
and then we instantiate one CBMutable
characteristic for each of the
variables that we would like to publish.
So these variables,
we can have static data
in those variables,
and we can have dynamic
data in those variables.
If it's static data,
we can supply it with the
tree when we build it.
It's not going to change.
We can just attach it up
at that point in time.
That means that CoreOS,
if there's a read request coming in,
Core Bluetooth will take
care of that read request and
respond to that automatically.
If you have dynamic data,
You can't really supply it at this point.
So for instance,
in the heart rate monitor case,
you just supply nil and the
Core Bluetooth framework will
give you a callback when that data
is being asked for and you can
supply it at that point in time.
So next is we have to start
advertising to the world,
tell the world we put this nice tree
together and start advertising it,
sending out these advertising packets.
How do we do that in Core Bluetooth?
Well,
now we're going to start interacting
with the CB Peripheral Manager.
We're going to call add service.
We're going to supply the tree
that we just bid with the service
and the number of characteristics.
Core Bluetooth then goes off and
does some checking on it and makes
sure that everything is fine and
you get a callback saying "did add
service". Now the tree is installed.
Now we need to start sending
out these advertising packets.
We do that by calling start advertising.
You also supply the content
of the advertising packets
that are going to be sent out.
We're going to talk about that
in a couple of slides later.
But for now...
Here's how you start sending
out the advertising packets.
You get a notification
coming back saying,
"Did start advertising,"
and you're all set.
You publish your tree.
You started advertising,
now you're ready to just sit back
and wait for requests coming in.
So we have this peripheral,
it's an iOS 6 device,
sending out advertising
packets to another iPhone.
That other iPhone says, "Oh,
this looks like an interesting device.
I'll set up a connection to
it and start exploring it,
see what services and
characteristics is available there."
Until it hits a characteristic
that has dynamic data in it,
and in that case it has to start
asking your application for
what the value of that data is.
Your application starts with getting
a notification on the delegate saying
"Central did connect". And then when it's
a read to one of these dynamic variables,
you get a "Did receive read request".
This is the time when you take
the request and you respond to it,
respond to request,
and you supply the value.
This loop can continue
now for a number of times.
It can read one characteristic or
read a number of characteristics
until the central says,
I've got the information
that I was looking for,
and it disconnects.
And you get a notification
about that as well.
Central did disconnect.
We talked about earlier that there
is another way of doing this,
that you can actually subscribe
to these notifications instead.
So the way that is done in
Core Bluetooth is that you see
that the central connected,
you get a call, central did connect.
And then a center can say,
I want to know whenever this
characteristic or this variable changes.
You get to know,
because a delegate will be called,
the did subscribe to characteristic
delegate will be called.
That's a cue to your app to
start supplying updates to this
variable on a regular basis to
the central on the other device.
And you do that by calling update value.
You can do that a number of
times until the central says,
it's time for me to
disconnect and go away.
So you get a notification saying
the central did disconnect.
And at that point,
there's no one interested
in this value anymore,
so you stop calling update value.
So all of this,
we can have an iPhone talking to another
iPhone while the app is background.
And we think this is pretty cool,
and we're sure this will tickle
some imagination of yours,
and you will come up with really,
really cool applications for this.
So let's dive in and talk a
little bit about what we've
learned over the past year.
We've got tremendous
feedback from you guys.
And we're going to start by
looking at iOS background.
We allow application to do
Almost anything in Core Bluetooth while
they're backgrounded.
They can scan for devices,
they can advertise in the background,
they can even connect to other devices
while the app is in the background.
And it can interact with other devices
Of course,
this consumes power on the device,
so we want to make sure that the
user is aware that this is going on.
This is why we ask of you to have
a start and stop concept in the UI.
The user can say, "Yes,
I want to start it, and yes,
I want to stop it."
You also have to put some magic
words in the Info.plist so we
can grant you this privilege.
But we ask of you to be very,
please be mindful.
We're giving you a lot of power.
Your application is allowed
to run in the background.
You can go off and do
all this cool stuff.
But please,
we ask of you not to access the internet
more than every 15 to 30 minutes to
preserve battery of the iOS device.
We give you a lot of power,
so please be mindful.
So we have this foregrounded apps,
and we have backgrounded apps.
And when an app is in the
foreground and it's trying to
discover devices around it,
we go off and do a high
intensity scanning.
And it's basically, we know the user is
looking at the screen,
the screen is on,
and it's expecting results.
So we turn on the radio.
and really scan with a high intensity.
When the app goes in the background,
or when the screen is off,
we use low intensity
scanning to save power.
We want you to be aware that when
your app is in the background,
that it takes longer to discover devices.
It takes longer to connect
and see what's around you.
One thing,
if you're an accessory manufacturer,
one thing that you can do
To help is to really advertise
with a short advertising interval.
Sending these advertising
packets out very,
very often will help
The application finds you even
when it's in the background.
So imagine I have this
heart rate monitor.
And I put it on, it starts advertising.
And I have my phone.
and I would like the application
sitting in the background on the
phone to pick up my heart rate
monitor as quick as possible.
For it to pick it up,
we suggest that you advertise
about every 20 milliseconds
with a really high intensity.
You don't have to do it for forever,
but maybe for a couple of minutes.
And then go back to low
intensity advertising.
So if you are
Accessory Developer,
please advertise often when you
want us to discover your device.
[Transcript missing]
Name of my heart rate monitor,
saying this is Joakiim's
heart rate monitor.
Or if it's a thermostat on the wall,
it could contain the name of the room.
The advertising packet also contains
the transmit power at which this
advertising packet was sent.
This is kind of convenient
because in the Core Bluetooth API,
every single advertising
packet we let you know about,
we also supply you the RSSI value,
the read signal strength,
the received signal strength
at which it was received.
You can use these values to figure out
the approximate distance to the device.
You can see if it's very,
very close or far, far away.
We think this is pretty cool and you
will see this in the demo that Khrob is
going to do in a couple of minutes here.
It would be sad if we had to connect
to every single device to figure
out what services it provides.
It could be kind of a bad experience,
have to connect to it and
then connect to the next one.
So instead,
you can put the most important service,
this one service that you
want everybody to know about,
in the advertising packet.
Of course,
it's the UUID that you put in there.
You can also put some key data
associated with this service.
For instance,
if you have a thermostat on the wall,
you could put the
temperature of the room.
So it's constantly advertising saying,
"I am a thermostat." Here's
the temperature of this room.
Here's the name of the room.
If you want to know more or maybe
change the setting of this thermostat,
you'll then have to connect to it.
But at least you know,
"I'm interested in this device.
Let me connect to it and
start interacting with it."
Remember I said in the beginning
that Bluetooth Low Energy is
all about low energy.
So the advertising packet
has some limitations.
It's very short.
It's only 31 bytes.
So you have to be careful when you put
the data in here that it all has to fit.
We have to live within these limits.
So only 31 bytes.
So these UUIDs.
We've talked a lot about UUIDs.
There's two types of UUIDs.
There's 16-bit UUIDs and
there's 128-bit UUIDs.
16-bit UUIDs is basically reserved for
the Bluetooth SIG and they assign them.
They normally assign them in
specifications that they produce.
If you want to know more about
the 16-bit UUIDs that exist,
you can go to developer.bluetooth.org.
And they have a nice table there for you.
They have a nice table there for you.
There's also the 128-bit UUIDs,
and those are actually assigned by you.
Now you go, "Oh, great,
then I can come up with
this cool UUID that's 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7." The guy next to you probably
has the same brilliant idea.
So instead,
we recommend that you open up a terminal
window on Mac OS and type UUID gen.
And it will generate a
truly random 128-bit UUID
and the probability of someone
else using that UID is very,
very, very close to zero.
So we talked a lot about advertising
and how to discover devices.
Now we're going to dive in to see what
happens when you connect the device.
As Brian mentioned in his talk,
when you connect to a device,
You set up a timetable when these
devices are going to interact.
and initially, Core Bluetooth,
when it connects to a peripheral,
sets up a very short connection interval.
The reason for that is we want to make
sure that the data that we're fetching,
the services and the characteristics,
we get them very fast.
The peripheral might say, "Whoa,
that's a little bit too short for me.
I'm going to consume a lot of power."
Maintain this connection interval so it
can actually request a longer connection
interval and that way saving power.
Of course,
this leads to latency involved with it,
so this is a design decision
that you have to make.
We have guidelines for what
connection parameters we support.
Those are documented in the
Bluetooth design guidelines.
We suggest that you take a look at that.
Setting up these connections,
the first time you set it up,
you go and look for the services
and you look for the characteristics
and it takes a while to get those.
Second time,
you go and look for the services
and characteristics again.
We found out a better way to do that.
In iOS 6, we actually introduced caching.
That means that the discovered services
and the discovered characteristics
are cached locally on your device.
We only cache the data structure.
We don't cache the actual values.
When you do a read or a write,
those are still live variables.
Since this takes up a little
bit of space on our device,
we only do it for paired devices.
The cool thing with this is,
this is fully transparent to the app.
So your app thinks the second
time it connects to the device,
I'm going to go and read the services
and read the characteristics.
In reality,
we have this small stash on the side
and we go and get the values from there.
I mentioned these paired devices.
So let's talk a little bit about pairing.
Pairing is always triggered
by the peripheral.
The central tries to do a
read or write to a peripheral.
And the peripheral has the ability
to reject that read or write.
They go through the pairing process
and you end up with an encrypted link.
It's only paired devices that you
can have an encrypted link with.
So let's take a look at how this works.
Your app issues a read or write
to a characteristic that gets sent
over the air to the peripheral.
The peripheral says,
"I don't know who you are," and rejects
this with insufficient authentication.
Core Bluetooth then goes off and
tries to pair with this device.
But before we do that,
we have to go and ask the user.
So we pop up a notification
to the user saying,
do you really want to
pair with this device?
We're going to create a bond with this.
Do you really want to do that?
And the user says yes.
Then we move forward.
request pairing for the peripheral
and part of the pairing process,
encryption keys are
generated on both sides.
We're going to use these
encryption keys on the link that
we later on are going to set up.
Core Bluetooth then automatically
goes and retries without your
application having to worry about it.
Retries the read or write.
And now we have a paired relationship
and it's done over an encrypted link.
And the peripheral now responds to it
because he knows who it comes from.
Last, I'd like to talk a
little bit about state.
One thing that's important is not
all iOS devices or Macs support
Bluetooth Low Energy in the hardware.
And before you start in calling
the Core Bluetooth framework,
we want to make sure that
you're actually on a device that
supports Bluetooth Low Energy.
You can check that in the
CB Central Manager or in
the CB Peripheral Manager.
There's a variable called state.
And this property can
have a number of states.
It can be unknown.
When it's first instantiated,
it's unknown.
It can be resetting.
This is normally when we
start booting up the system.
And then, if Bluetooth Low Energy is not
supported on this hardware,
the state is unsupported.
Or it could be powered off.
In that case, your application will have
to go and tell the user,
"Bluetooth is turned off on this device.
You might want to go into Settings and
turn Bluetooth on so I can use
Bluetooth." Key thing you want to look
for eventually is that it's powered on,
Bluetooth Low Energy is supported on
the device that your app is running,
and now your application is all
ready to start using Core Bluetooth.
With that, I'd like to invite Khrob up
to the stage for the demo.
Thank you, Joaki.
G'day all.
Now, if you're all like me,
a lot of your Bluetooth experience
will be sticking on some really cool
noise-canceling Bluetooth headphones
and tunneling down so you just,
you know, you focus and you're blocking
out the outside world.
But hypothetically speaking,
what if you were to find
yourself in a large conference
center with 4,999 other really,
really cool people that you actually
get along with really well and share,
let's say, quite a few common interests?
Well, you might meet some of them and you
want to exchange your contact details.
Now,
that might involve going to contacts,
typing in their number,
sending them a message with your details,
step by step by step by step.
You know, wouldn't it be much nicer if
you could just do the equivalent
of pulling out a business card,
handing it over, they take it from you,
and you're done?
But, you know,
eco-friendly and everything,
we want to save trees,
so let's just do it electronically,
phone to phone.
So in this demo,
I'll show you how to set up your phone.
your phone into a peripheral mode
So essentially you're turning this
into a peripheral like the heart
rate monitor or the thermostat on
the wall that is your business card.
So let's have a look
at what we need to do.
So it's quite simple.
First up we need to start
our CV peripheral manager.
Once we've done that we
need to create the tree,
publish our service,
so Core Bluetooth knows what information
we want to put out in the world.
Then we need to advertise the service
and then we basically sit back and relax
until a central comes along and says,
"Hey, you're advertising this UID that
I'm interested in plus your RSSI,
the power,
tells me that you're actually really,
really close." And when it does that
it connects and we start talking.
So just quickly the class itself, very,
very simple.
We have the CV peripheral manager,
we just called that one manager.
We implement the CV peripheral manager
delegate so we get all the right
callbacks from the asynchronous services.
We have a mutable service which
I've called vCardService and
a mutable characteristic which
I've called vCardCharacteristic.
Note that because we're on the
peripheral side we want to be using
the mutable versions of these because
we set the information in them,
not Core Bluetooth.
So turning on Core Bluetooth, very,
very simple,
stock standard in it function.
And we call CV peripheral manager
alloc and in it with delegate.
Of course we're going to set
it to ourself because that's,
you know, we implement the protocol.
And we set the queue that
it's going to run on.
In this case we're just setting
nil which will choose the
most appropriate queue to,
you know,
do all the callbacks and everything on.
If you need to do something a little
bit more clever then feel free to
set whatever queue you like for that.
Now the second part of turning
on the peripheral manager as
Joachim was just talking about.
was checking that state,
which is very simply done.
We get the callback,
peripheral manager did update state,
and it even says the peripheral.
So we do a switch on the state.
If it's CB peripheral manager state
powered off or resetting or unknown,
we know that something's not
quite right with the setup.
Maybe it's an older phone
or an older MacBook Air,
doesn't have the low energy Bluetooth.
So we deal with that here.
But if we do have the magic one,
CB peripheral manager state powered on,
then we can go ahead
and set up our service.
Now, the service will have
several characteristics.
Well,
it could have several characteristics.
A service is a collection
of characteristics,
as we've just seen.
So you could have a service
that has a UID that expresses
that it's the vCard service.
And you could have a characteristic
that says this is my first name,
this is my second name,
this is my phone number,
this is my address.
And that's absolutely perfectly
valid use case and way to
do it with core Bluetooth.
Each of those things is a
very small piece of data.
And as we're low energy,
we want to send small pieces of
data because we can do that very,
very quickly.
We're going to do something
slightly different today.
Instead of a readable characteristic
for each of those different things,
we're going to set up a
notifiable characteristic that
when the central connects,
it can subscribe to.
Now, remember, when you subscribe to a
notifiable characteristic,
you're going to get a notification.
So if you have a
notifiable characteristic,
any time that characteristic changes,
the connected central will
get a callback saying,
hey, this value changed,
and here's the new data.
So let's go ahead and set up that tree,
which represents that.
So, as just said,
everything is identified by UUIDs,
or CBUIDs that is.
So we're setting up a
string for each of the two,
one for the service,
one for the characteristic.
And then we can use the CBUID helper
function UUID with string,
pass in the strings from up here,
and there we get service and pipe UUIDs.
[Transcript missing]
This is exactly the same as above.
We've just made the, you know,
I've just repeated it for clarity.
UUID with string, passing the string,
we have our new UUID.
Make an array of the services.
Make a dictionary, pass in that array.
and make sure we use the right key.
There's one for each of them,
clearly defined in the header docs.
CB advertisement data,
service UIDs key and then
starting to advertise,
simple as telling the manager to
start advertising this information.
Hell of a lot nicer than packing bytes.
So now we're advertising.
What's going to happen then is
we're walking around the conference.
I meet someone and say,
you look pretty cool.
You're working on really
interesting stuff.
Here's my card, essentially.
And when they get close,
his app is in central
mode and it's going to go,
hey, wow, someone's broadcasting this
data and the RSSI is very small.
So obviously it's very close.
So it'll connect to us.
And as the peripheral manager,
we'll get a callback
saying central did connect.
Now, many apps are going to use
that for their own ends.
There might be something very
important they need to do.
We're not particularly
worried about that.
It's like, hey, connect away.
We're all good with that.
But then it's going to explore
us and it's going to hit the
characteristic that we want and say,
oh, there you go,
there's your pipe characteristic.
I know that if I connect to you,
if I subscribe to that,
you're going to send me a whole lot
of data that represents a vCard.
So they're going to call subscribe
to characteristic and on our side,
we're going to get a callback.
What callback is that, you ask?
Peripheral manager central did
subscribe to characteristic.
Very, very simple.
That comes in without us
having to do anything.
And once it happens,
we know that we can loop through
the data that represents our
vCard one chunk at a time,
send each chunk over to the central,
and then send an end of message.
Now,
I just want to reiterate again here that
when you're sending characteristics...
When you're sending chunks,
this is low energy.
We can't send video files.
We can't send massive, massive stuff.
Keep it small.
The chunks in this case,
they're 20 bytes a pop.
So I've got a little helper function
that just goes to my Anastata that
contains the vCard and pulls out...
The next chunk, the next 20-byte chunk,
and keeps on doing that until
the vCard's already sent.
But once we have each chunk,
we need to actually update the
value of our characteristic.
So, again,
back to our CV peripheral manager.
Update value, pass in the NSData for
the characteristic,
the vCard characteristic, and like magic,
it'll go over to the central.
The central will get their response,
their callback, saying, "Hey,
this characteristic updated
the value." They'll pull it in,
they'll pull it in, they'll pull it in,
and the app here streams them all
together until it gets updated.
And that's the end of message one, which,
again, very, very simple.
Just getting an NSString,
turn it into some NSData,
and using exactly the
same call as before,
we update the value
for the characteristic.
And when the central gets that, it goes,
"Okay, that's the end of message.
I have all the data I need.
I will disconnect to you
-- or disconnect from you,
and you're free to go and share your
card with someone else." And really,
it's a very simple thing.
That's it.
Now, I know I've been a bit long-winded
in explaining how it goes,
so let's have a look at just how
quickly this all happens in real life.
Okay,
so that's a phone set into central mode,
so it's scanning, looking out for people
in peripheral mode.
And so I've got this
chap in peripheral mode.
I'm going to very simply
select the card that I want.
He's up there.
Now, when I bring it close,
hand the card over, flash, flash, flash,
and you're done.
and just because it's really,
really quick, let's see it again.
♪ ♪ There we have it.
Back to you, Joaki.
Thank you, Khrob.
Wasn't that an amazing demo?
I'm just trying to imagine all
the applications that you guys
are going to build using this.
Wow.
So many use cases for this.
So if you want to know more,
we have Steven Schick
and Craig Keithley here.
They are our evangelists.
They'd be happy to answer
all your questions.
We also have a Bluetooth mailing
list where I try to answer as
many questions as possible.
So please post questions there as well.
We also have the Apple Developers Forum.
Under Core OS,
there is a Core Bluetooth Forum.
We try to answer your
questions there as well.
Previously today,
you heard Brian speak about the
introduction to Core Bluetooth.
Thank you.